site/src/content/docs/options.mdx, before:

---
title: Command Options
description: All available ES Check command-line options and flags
---

ES Check provides numerous command-line options to customize its behavior. Here's a comprehensive guide to all available options.

## Basic Usage

```bash
es-check <ecmaVersion> [files...] [options]
```

## Options Reference

### `--module`

Use ES modules parsing mode (default: false)

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --module
```

### `--light`

Lightweight mode: faster checking using pattern matching only (default: false)

```bash
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --light
```

This mode uses pattern matching instead of full AST parsing for improved performance. Ideal for CI/CD pipelines where speed is critical.

### `--allowHashBang`

Allow files starting with `#!` (shebang) (default: false)

```bash
es-check es6 './tests/*.js' --allowHashBang
```

### `--files <files>`

Specify files to check (alternative to positional arguments)

```bash
es-check es6 --files='./dist/**/*.js'
```

### `--not <files>`

Exclude specific files or patterns

```bash
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --not='./dist/vendor/**/*.js'
```

### `--checkFeatures`

Check for ES version specific features (default: false)

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures
```

### `--checkForPolyfills`

Consider polyfills when checking features (requires --checkFeatures)

```bash
es-check es2022 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --checkForPolyfills
```

### `--ignore <features>`

Comma-separated list of features to ignore

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --ignore="ErrorCause,TopLevelAwait"
```

### `--ignoreFile <path>`

Path to JSON file with features to ignore (requires --checkFeatures)

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --ignoreFile=./ignore-features.json
```

Example `ignore-features.json`:

```json
["TopLevelAwait", "ErrorCause", "PrivateClassFields"]
```

### `--allowList <features>`

Allow specific features even in lower ES versions

```bash
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --allowList="const,let"
```

### `--checkBrowser`

Use browserslist configuration to determine ES version

```bash
es-check --checkBrowser --browserslistQuery="last 2 versions" ./dist/**/*.js
```

### `--browserslistQuery <query>`

Custom browserslist query

```bash
es-check checkBrowser ./dist/**/*.js --browserslistQuery=">0.5%, not dead"
```

### `--browserslistPath <path>`

Custom path to browserslist configuration file

```bash
es-check --checkBrowser --browserslistPath=./config/.browserslistrc ./dist/**/*.js
```

### `--config <path>`

Path to custom .escheckrc config file

```bash
es-check --config=./configs/production.escheckrc.json
```

### `--batchSize <number>`

Number of files to process concurrently (0 for unlimited, default: 0)

```bash
# Process all files in parallel (fastest, default)
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --batchSize 0

# Process 10 files at a time (memory-constrained)
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --batchSize 10

# Process 50 files at a time (balanced)
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --batchSize 50
```

### `--noCache`

Disable file caching (cache is enabled by default)

```bash
# Cache is enabled by default
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'

# Disable cache if needed
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --noCache
```

In our benchmarks, caching provided ~28% performance improvement. See [performance guide](./performance) for details.

### Display Options

- `--noColor` - Disable colored output
- `--verbose` or `-v` - Show debug messages
- `--quiet` - Only show warnings and errors
- `--silent` - No output except exit code

### Other Options

- `--looseGlobMatching` - Don't fail if some globs match no files
- `--version` or `-V` - Show version number
- `--help` or `-h` - Show help message

## Shell Completion

ES Check supports generating shell completion scripts for Bash and Zsh to enable tab completion for commands and options.

### Generate Bash Completion

```bash
es-check completion > ~/.es-check-completion.bash
```

Then add to your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
source ~/.es-check-completion.bash
```

### Generate Zsh Completion

```bash
es-check completion zsh > ~/.es-check-completion.zsh
```

Then add to your `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
source ~/.es-check-completion.zsh
```

### Usage

After setting up completion, you can use tab to autocomplete:

```bash
es-check <TAB>              # Shows available ES versions
es-check es6 --<TAB>        # Shows available options
es-check --check<TAB>       # Completes to --checkFeatures
```

Supported shells: `bash`, `zsh`

Commit message:

feat: adds initial support for running es-check on ts files

site/src/content/docs/options.mdx, after:

---
title: Command Options
description: All available ES Check command-line options and flags
---

ES Check provides numerous command-line options to customize its behavior. Here's a comprehensive guide to all available options.

## Basic Usage

```bash
es-check <ecmaVersion> [files...] [options]
```

## Options Reference

### `--module`

Use ES modules parsing mode (default: false)

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --module
```

### `--light`

Lightweight mode: faster checking using pattern matching only (default: false)

```bash
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --light
```

This mode uses pattern matching instead of full AST parsing for improved performance. Ideal for CI/CD pipelines where speed is critical.

### `--allowHashBang`

Allow files starting with `#!` (shebang) (default: false)

```bash
es-check es6 './tests/*.js' --allowHashBang
```

### `--typescript`, `--ts`

Enable TypeScript file support (default: false)

```bash
es-check es5 './src/**/*.{js,ts}' --typescript
```

This is experimental functionality that strips TypeScript type annotations and tests the resulting JavaScript against the specified ES version.

### `--files <files>`

Specify files to check (alternative to positional arguments)

```bash
es-check es6 --files='./dist/**/*.js'
```

### `--not <files>`

Exclude specific files or patterns

```bash
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --not='./dist/vendor/**/*.js'
```

### `--checkFeatures`

Check for ES version specific features (default: false)

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures
```

### `--checkForPolyfills`

Consider polyfills when checking features (requires --checkFeatures)

```bash
es-check es2022 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --checkForPolyfills
```

### `--ignore <features>`

Comma-separated list of features to ignore

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --ignore="ErrorCause,TopLevelAwait"
```

### `--ignoreFile <path>`

Path to JSON file with features to ignore (requires --checkFeatures)

```bash
es-check es6 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --ignoreFile=./ignore-features.json
```

Example `ignore-features.json`:

```json
["TopLevelAwait", "ErrorCause", "PrivateClassFields"]
```

### `--allowList <features>`

Allow specific features even in lower ES versions

```bash
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --checkFeatures --allowList="const,let"
```

### `--checkBrowser`

Use browserslist configuration to determine ES version

```bash
es-check --checkBrowser --browserslistQuery="last 2 versions" ./dist/**/*.js
```

### `--browserslistQuery <query>`

Custom browserslist query

```bash
es-check checkBrowser ./dist/**/*.js --browserslistQuery=">0.5%, not dead"
```

### `--browserslistPath <path>`

Custom path to browserslist configuration file

```bash
es-check --checkBrowser --browserslistPath=./config/.browserslistrc ./dist/**/*.js
```

### `--config <path>`

Path to custom .escheckrc config file

```bash
es-check --config=./configs/production.escheckrc.json
```

### `--batchSize <number>`

Number of files to process concurrently (0 for unlimited, default: 0)

```bash
# Process all files in parallel (fastest, default)
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --batchSize 0

# Process 10 files at a time (memory-constrained)
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --batchSize 10

# Process 50 files at a time (balanced)
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --batchSize 50
```

### `--noCache`

Disable file caching (cache is enabled by default)

```bash
# Cache is enabled by default
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'

# Disable cache if needed
es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --noCache
```

In our benchmarks, caching provided ~28% performance improvement. See [performance guide](./performance) for details.

### Display Options

- `--noColor` - Disable colored output
- `--verbose` or `-v` - Show debug messages
- `--quiet` - Only show warnings and errors
- `--silent` - No output except exit code

### Other Options

- `--looseGlobMatching` - Don't fail if some globs match no files
- `--version` or `-V` - Show version number
- `--help` or `-h` - Show help message

## Shell Completion

ES Check supports generating shell completion scripts for Bash and Zsh to enable tab completion for commands and options.

### Generate Bash Completion

```bash
es-check completion > ~/.es-check-completion.bash
```

Then add to your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
source ~/.es-check-completion.bash
```

### Generate Zsh Completion

```bash
es-check completion zsh > ~/.es-check-completion.zsh
```

Then add to your `~/.zshrc`:

```bash
source ~/.es-check-completion.zsh
```

### Usage

After setting up completion, you can use tab to autocomplete:

```bash
es-check <TAB>              # Shows available ES versions
es-check es6 --<TAB>        # Shows available options
es-check --check<TAB>       # Completes to --checkFeatures
```

Supported shells: `bash`, `zsh`
