site/src/content/docs/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Get up and running with ES Check in minutes
---

# Quick Start

This guide will help you get started with ES Check in just a few minutes.

## Installation

First, install ES Check in your project:

```bash
npm install es-check --save-dev
```

## Basic Usage

### Example 1: Check ES5 Compatibility

Check if your bundled JavaScript is ES5 compatible:

```bash
npx es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'
```

### Example 2: Check Multiple Directories

Check both vendor and distribution files:

```bash
npx es-check es5 './vendor/**/*.js' './dist/**/*.js'
```

### Example 3: Check ES6 Modules

For ES6 modules, use the `--module` flag:

```bash
npx es-check es6 './src/**/*.mjs' --module
```

## Common Scenarios

### Production Build Check

Add to your build pipeline:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "webpack && npm run check:es",
    "check:es": "es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'"
  }
}
```

### CI/CD Integration

```yaml
# Example GitHub Actions
- name: Check ES Version
  run: npx es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'
```

### With Configuration File

Create `.escheckrc`:

```json
{
  "ecmaVersion": "es5",
  "files": ["./dist/**/*.js"],
  "not": ["./dist/modern/**/*.js"]
}
```

Run with:

```bash
npx es-check
```

## Understanding Output

### Success

```bash
✓ ES Check passed! All files are ES5 compatible.
```

### Failure

```bash
✗ ES Check failed!
./dist/app.js - Uses ES6 feature: arrow function (line 10)
./dist/utils.js - Uses ES6 feature: const declaration (line 5)
```

## What's Next?

- [Explore all command options](/docs/options)
- [Configure ES Check for your project](/docs/configuration)
- [Debug ES version issues](/docs/debugging)

Commit message:

chore: updates docs after adding fast-brake

site/src/content/docs/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Get up and running with ES Check in minutes
---

# Quick Start

This guide will help you get started with ES Check in just a few minutes.

## Installation

First, install ES Check in your project:

```bash
npm install es-check --save-dev
```

## Basic Usage

### Example 1: Check ES5 Compatibility

Check if your bundled JavaScript is ES5 compatible:

```bash
npx es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'
```

### Example 2: Check Multiple Directories

Check both vendor and distribution files:

```bash
npx es-check es5 './vendor/**/*.js' './dist/**/*.js'
```

### Example 3: Check ES6 Modules

For ES6 modules, use the `--module` flag:

```bash
npx es-check es6 './src/**/*.mjs' --module
```

### Example 4: Fast Mode for CI/CD

Use `--light` mode for faster checking in CI pipelines:

```bash
npx es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js' --light
```

## Common Scenarios

### Production Build Check

Add to your build pipeline:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "webpack && npm run check:es",
    "check:es": "es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'"
  }
}
```

### CI/CD Integration

```yaml
# Example GitHub Actions
- name: Check ES Version
  run: npx es-check es5 './dist/**/*.js'
```

### With Configuration File

Create `.escheckrc`:

```json
{
  "ecmaVersion": "es5",
  "files": ["./dist/**/*.js"],
  "not": ["./dist/modern/**/*.js"]
}
```

Run with:

```bash
npx es-check
```

## Understanding Output

### Success

```bash
✓ ES Check passed! All files are ES5 compatible.
```

### Failure

```bash
✗ ES Check failed!
./dist/app.js - Uses ES6 feature: arrow function (line 10)
./dist/utils.js - Uses ES6 feature: const declaration (line 5)
```

## What's Next?

- [Explore all command options](/docs/options)
- [Configure ES Check for your project](/docs/configuration)
- [Debug ES version issues](/docs/debugging)
